---
layout: post
title: getting better at soccer
date: 2025-06-01 12:00:00
description: 

tags: econ-thoughts
categories:
disqus_comments: true
---
I've mentioned this on the blog before, but one of the best things about moving to NYC for me has been being able to play soccer again. There has been a tournament going on over the past handful of months that has just finished; our team got second (after a greuling 3-2 loss in the finals) and I won the golden boot (with 14 goals). I've learned a lot about both soccer and myself with regard to soccer.

Before coming to NYC, I had basically quit playing soccer by the end of 10th grade. This was quite the large step given that I had been playing soccer since 1st grade and had even started playing in the highest non-academy league level in Dallas in 8th and 9th grade. There was some national ranking system (which to be honest, I am not sure how it determined the rankings) that put our team at somewhere around 100th in the US. Despite playing at this level though, I don't think I was really that good. I got there by relying on some mixture of unrefined athleticism and the leftovers of some confidence I had as a striker in my smaller more non-competitive days. This was enough to get me to that level but was nowhere enough to what I needed to keep me there. I had not grown up with the habit of practicing soccer on my own or with the habit of watching or thinking about any sports off the field either. I really enjoyed the sport as a kid, and that is what kept me playing. When I got to that level, however, the combination of a not-so-motivating coach and a socially very distant team stripped away that base level of child-like enjoyment leaving me with absolutely no motivated to work or think about soccer outside of practice. Immigrant indians also seem to have something against working out, so I soon lost my innate physical advantages as the other kids got stronger. All this led to me having with what I now recognize as the absolute worse mentality that one can have as a soccer player, and especially as a striker. I lacked basically any confidence: I was always scared of getting the ball, I always positioned myself as to only catch any chance through balls instead of putting myself in a position to control the game, and I never got along well with any of the other players leading to no mutual trust. I eventually stopped because this distancing away from what made me like soccer and be good at it in the first placed got eclipsed by other activities I had going on like debate and orchestra where I did connect with people a lot better. We can of course never change the past and things unfolded the way they did, but I can't stop myself from thinking about what if one of the factors that took me out of soccer were different.

The fact of the matter thought is that I did quit and I have made peace with that, but I have since undergone a massive social, mental, and physical maturation that has made my coming back to soccer quite satisfactory. The social aspect is just a matter of being older and having to both interact and get along with all sorts of people. The physical maturation is because I started to go to the gym and learn a lot more about flexibility and strength training. The mental aspect, however unorthodox, has been a large part due to the anime "Blue Lock". The anime is about a youth soccer training camp in Japan with the sole purpose of training incredible strikers. Each character has their own strengths and weaknesses, but what connected to me the most was the mentality that the main character has. At the beginning, he is far from the best player in the camp, but despite this, he cultivates a mentality of confidence and works hard to analyze his own game. His strength is in determining what conditions are best for him to score a goal and trying to make those conditions happen. Watching this show has made me realize that in order to get good and enjoy the game again, I need shift my mentality away from being scared of the ball towards always believing that a play will be better with me involved in it. The more I convince myself that this is true, the more I convince others, and the more real it actually becomes.

I have my own strengths and weaknesses; I am decent with my feet and can make good passes but there are definitely people who are far better than me on these aspects, and I'm no longer the fast kid (this was basically my identity before 9th grade). My main three strengths instead are:

* Shooting
* smthing
* 1-on-1 defending

All of these aspects of my game came to play at the tournament in the Fed. Our team on paper on onset didn't seem to me to be the best but what we did have is superb chemistry. We had a few pretty good offensive plays where you could see us mesh together well, but mainly we all had very synergistic playstyles.

I still definitely do need to get better in all aspects of my game. I need to finally get into doing drills to hone in on the fundamentals and have many a plans to get into this come Minneapolis.

* Talk about my play style, how it has changed from before, what I excel at
* Talk about chemistry, what kind of player mentailities do I mesh well with
* Talk about what I need to get better at
* Talk about how the current fed tournament has gone

I will be leaving NYC in a few months and moving to Minneapolis. I plan on not only continuing my soccer journey but try to level up as well. In NYC, the soccer leagues are pretty decentralized but in Minneapolis, there seems to be one centralized competitive summer league that is divided by skill level where the top league they say is typically for people who have recently played D1 in college. While I am definitely no where close to playing in that level right now, I think setting concrete targets is good to make sure that I am on track with my ultimate goal, so my plan is to play in the top summer league in Minneapolis for at least a year while I am in my PhD.

One other thing I wanted to mention is the use of more quantitative methods in soccer. Everyone knows about "Money Ball" and the introduction of statistics into baseball. I feel like baseball, however, is a far more static sport than most other sports and also has very clearly defined game states (such as which bases are loaded and who is batting/pitching) which lends it to be more easily modeled. Football may have some static states, but I feel like the fluidity of a lot of other team based sports like basketball and soccer make it difficult to analyze specific actions that a coach should be directing their team to take given a certain game state. Soccer even more so than basketball simply because there are more players on the pitch and the size of the field is also larger overall as well. The new tools that I have
