---
layout: post
title: the evolution of societal organization
date: 
description: 

tags: econ-thoughts
categories:
disqus_comments: true
---
As of the time that I am starting to write this (1/22/2025), I have just finished my first read of *1984* by George Orwell. Beyond thouroughly enjoying the book and reinvigorating my taste for the Dystopia genre, Orwell dedicated a significant portion of the text to talking about social movements and how the particular social movement of interest was able to evolve away from the social cycles of the past. I won't spoil too much but the gist was how social organization essentially always had a low, middle, and a high class and the discussion in the book was regarding how the high class could hold onto power permanently.

As a quick diversion, everytime I feel a certain passion for some genre, like sci-fi last year, I feel the need to dive deep into the books either define the genre or are historically significant to the genre: next on the list are *Animal Farm* by George Orwell, *We* by Yevgeny Zamyatin (which I actually already have read but want to reread), *Brave New World* by Aldous Huxley, and *Utopia* by Sir Thomas More. Also, I just recently added a goodreads social icon on the [about page](https://pranay-gundam.github.io/) of this website so check that out if you want an idea of what I've been reading from 2024 onwards (it's not really accurate before then).

Back to *1984* now: all this philosophical discussion about social movements was something I hadn't interacted with before, but this use of the low-middle-high divide to classify social structures got me thinking more generally about the relationship to wealth distributions and social structures. Economists generally believe that some level of inequality is a good thing; there are of course arguments about what level or shape of inequality is best but put very reductively, a lot of our models are built around the fact that different agents/people have different levels of productivity. That is, their innate ability to constribute to society is different, some models include mechanisms where individuals can invest time and effort to increase their innate ability but the fact that a company hires Person A over Person B implies that they believe that Person A can contribute more to them than Person B and this choice is what motivates the need to include inequality as an important consideration. When it comes to a societal progress persective, the idea is that if we allocate more resources towards the high productive individuals, we can push societal progress as a whole faster. I personally don't think that the point of society is only to progress as fast as we can but to do so ethically and at a sustainable rate (and I also happen to think that these two features go hand in hand) that doesn't lead to frequent collapses.

- talk about my framework for the societal progress model with aggregate wealth being the metric of overall progress
  - there are collapses if the gini gets to high
  - productivity lies on a normal distribution (my theory is that wealth distribution will also look the same)

Specifically if we could wean some level of co-movement between wealth distributions and the overall progress society makes and what would it look like if we simulated this evolution beyond the history of human society thus far.

- the modeling can be individual based or aggregate distribution based (as of 2/7 im thinking of an individual object based thing where they all come together to form a society object and ... but I know I had some thoughts in my project notebook about this. Basically each agent can have a disatisfaction rating based on their individual wealth compared to rest of distribution and aggregate disatisfaction is what creates revolution)
- talk at the end about what we can do to get to this "more ideal society", this can be relevant to DEI and talk about an example here

If one's goal is the pursuit of a more ideal or productive society, then I feel like it is a direct conclusion to have some level of a redistribution or equity program in place based on what I think are very reasonable priors. For example, if we believe that the differences in humans across all races and income groups is a byproduct of the environment in which they are raised and not a pure genetic discrepancy that can be identified at birth, then it is a logical conclusion that at birth there is an equal distribution of productive individuals across demographic groups that have similar levels of potential of contributing to society. To be clear, I'm not saying that everyone is exactly equal, and indeed people can also be equally productive in a variety of ways, but that there is an equal distribution of ability to contribute to society positively across all the various demographic groups. If we don't match this equal distribution of productivity with an equal distribution of resources for them to actualize their latent potential then this is an overall deadweight loss to society. Giving more resources to people of the lower productivity end of one demographic group doesn't make any sense if the goal is the betterment of society as a whole. From the pure capitalism perspective, these resources would be allocated accordingly based on how much latent potential an individual posssess, but I don't think its's very controversial to say that there are some external forces outside the control of economic forces that creates a disproportionate access to resources across demographic groups more than what I think would match each demographic groups' distribution of latent potential. There is a clear deadweight loss.
